esoreader
=========

A python module for reading *.eso files generated by EnergyPlus

# Introduction

The easiest way to install `esoreader` ist to do:

```
$ pip install esoreader
```

# Features

- parse `*.eso` files to pandas `DataFrame`s
- search for output variables by substring

# Installation


# Using esoreader with Pandas

```python
In [1]: import pandas as pd

In [2]: import esoreader

eso = esoreader.read_from_path(r'/PATH/TO/OUTPUT/eplusout.eso')

In [5]: eso.find_variable('heating')
Out[5]:
[('TimeStep', None, 'Heating:EnergyTransfer'),
 ('TimeStep',
  'DEFAULT_ZONEZONEHVAC:IDEALLOADSAIRSYSTEM',
  'Zone Ideal Loads Zone Total Heating Energy')]
```


# Using esoreader without pandas

The eso files generated by EnergyPlus contains a data dictionary, which
describes the values reported by EnergyPlus. The list of values reported
depends on the simulation input file, specifically the `Output:Variable` and
`Output:Meter` objects.  EnergyPlus can output the same variable at different
frequencies and for different "keys", which are for instance surfaces or
equipment names.

Following the data dictionary is a list of output variable values for each of the configured
variable coordinates.

The output of the esoreader module is therefore a data dictionary object that contains
a mapping of variable "coordinates" (grouping of reporting frequency, key and variable name)
to the index used by EnergyPlus and a data object, which essentially just maps that index to
the timeseries data.

## Example

```python
import esoreader

PATH_TO_ESO = r'/Path/To/EnergyPlus/Output/eplusout.eso'
dd, data = esoreader.read(PATH_TO_ESO)
frequency, key, variable = dd.find_variable('Zone Ventilation Total Heat Loss Energy')[0]
idx = dd.index[frequency, key, variable]
time_series = data[idx]
```

# Contribute

- Issue Tracker: https://github.com/architecture-building-systems/esoreader/issues
- Source Code: https://github.com/architecture-building-systems/esoreader

# Support

If you are having issues, please let us know. 
We have a mailing list located at: http://groups.google.com/group/esoreader.

# License & Credit

This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license. See the file
"LICENSE" in the project root for more information.

This module was developed by Daren Thomas at the chair for
[Architecture and Building Systems (A/S)](http://systems.arch.ethz.ch) at the [Institute of Technology in
Architecture](http://ita.arch.ethz.ch), ETH Zürich, Switzerland.

